docs: Added Flightcontrol as a deployment option (#18888)
backstage/backstage: docs/deployment/flightcontrol.md

---
id: flightcontrol
title: Deploying with Flightcontrol
sidebar_label: AWS Fargate via Flightcontrol
description: Deploying Backstage to AWS Fargate via Flightcontrol
---

This guide explains how to deploy Backstage to [Flightcontrol](https://www.flightcontrol.dev?ref=backstage), a platform that fully automates deployments to Amazon Web Services (AWS). Flightcontrol supports git-driven and image registry deployments.

Before you begin, make sure you have a [Flightcontrol account](https://app.flightcontrol.dev/signup?ref=backstage) and a [Github account](https://github.com/login) to follow this guide.

> # Deployment Via Dashboard
> 
> 1. First upload your project on Github
> 
> 2. Select `GUI` as the config type:
> 
> 3. Then, choose `+ Add Web Server (Fargate)` under Services before entering the following server information:
> 
> | Field Name        | Value             |
> | ----------------- | ----------------- |
> | Build Type        | Custom Dockerfile |
> | Health Check Path | /catalog          |
> | Port              | 7007              |
> 
> 4. After that, select `+ Add Database (RDS)`
> 
> 5. Click `Create Project` and complete any required steps (like linking your AWS account).
> 
> # Deployment via Code
> 
> 1. First upload your project on Github
> 
> 2. Create a Flightcontrol project from your dashboard. Select a repository for the source.
> 
> 3. Select the `flightcontrol.json` Config Type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deployment Via Dashboard

1. Create a new project from the Flightcontrol Dashboard

2. Select the GitHub repo for your Backstage project

3. Select `GUI` as the config type:

4. Then, choose `+ Add Web Server (Fargate)` under Services before entering the following server information:

| Field Name        | Value             |
| ----------------- | ----------------- |
| Build Type        | Custom Dockerfile |
| Health Check Path | /catalog          |
| Port              | 7007              |

5. After that, select `+ Add Database (RDS)`

6. Click `Create Project` and complete any required steps (like linking your AWS account).

# Deployment via Code

1. Create a new project from the Flightcontrol Dashboard

2. Select the GitHub repo for your Backstage project

3. Select the `flightcontrol.json` Config Type.
```

4. Add a new file at the root of your repository called `flightcontrol.json`. Here's an example configuration that creates a Web Server for your Backstage app:

```json filename="flightcontrol.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://app.flightcontrol.dev/schema.json",
  "environments": [
    {
      "id": "backstage",
      "name": "Backstage",
      "region": "us-west-2",
      "source": {
        "branch": "main"
      },
      "services": [
        {

>           "id": "my-webapp",
>           "name": "My BackstageApp",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          "id": "backstage",
          "name": "Backstage",
```

          "type": "fargate",
          "buildType": "docker",
          "dockerfilePath": "Dockerfile",
          "dockerContext": ".",
          "healthCheckPath": "/catalog",

>           "cpu": 0.25,
>           "memory": 0.5,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          "cpu": 0.5,
          "memory": 1,
```

| ----------------- | ----------------- |
| Build Type        | Custom Dockerfile |
| Health Check Path | /catalog          |
| Port              | 7007              |

5. Click `Create Project` and complete any required steps (like linking your AWS account).

# Deployment via Code

1. Create a new project from the Flightcontrol Dashboard

2. Select the GitHub repo for your Backstage project

3. Select the `flightcontrol.json` Config Type.

```json filename="flightcontrol.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://app.flightcontrol.dev/schema.json",
  "environments": [
    {
      "id": "backstage",
      "name": "Backstage",
      "region": "us-west-2",
      "source": {
        "branch": "main"
      },
      "services": [
        {
          "id": "backstage",
          "name": "Backstage",
          "type": "fargate",
          "buildType": "docker",
          "dockerfilePath": "Dockerfile",
          "dockerContext": ".",
          "healthCheckPath": "/catalog",
          "cpu": 0.5,
          "memory": 1,
          "domain": "backstage.yourapp.com",
          "port": 7007,
          "minInstances": 1,
          "maxInstances": 1
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

> # Databases in Redis
> 
> If you need a database for your Backstage plugins, follow this [guide](https://www.flightcontrol.dev/docs/guides/flightcontrol/using-code#redis?ref=backstage) to add a Redis Database service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Databases and Redis

If you need a database or Redis for your Backstage plugins, you can easily add those to your Flightcontrol deployment. For more information, see [the flightcontrol docs](https://www.flightcontrol.dev/docs/guides/flightcontrol/using-code#redis?ref=backstage).
```
